Py scg doc 798 (#807)
ossf/wg-best-practices-os-developers: docs/Secure-Coding-Guide-for-Python/CWE-693/CWE-798/README.md

Examples of hard-coded sensitive information:

* Default usernames with default password
* Database credentials
* API keys, tokens, SSH keys
* Service account credentials or keys used for installation or management.
* Default passwords for administrators after installation.
* Backend IP Addressess

Storing sensitive data as part of a components source code or deliverable package can result in legal consequences governed by:

* Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) [US Congress 1996](https://aspe.hhs.gov/reports/health-insurance-portability-accountability-act-1996),
* General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) [European Parliament 2016](https://gdpr-info.eu/)"
* California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) DIVISION 3. OBLIGATIONS 1427 - 3273.16 [CPPA 2025](https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/codes_displaySection.xhtml?lawCode=CIV&sectionNum=1798.150)

Issues with hard-coded sensitive information include:

* Implementation does not scale
* Customers know each others passwords
* Attackers can extract them from packages or byte-code `.pyo` or `.pyc` files
* Hard to replace at runtime.

## Non-Compliant Code Example

> The `noncompliant01.py` code `front_end` method simulates our front-end service that wants to connect to a simulated back-end service together with its deployment in one file. A real world example would have each running and delivered on their own. The `TestSimulateDeployingFrontEnd` unit test simulates a deployment of the `front_end`. The implementation of the `front_end` did not consider deployment in separation to delivering the functionality it provides. A real world example would have `front_end` packaging the password and IP information.

Reviewer: This paragraph is a bit hard to understand. What do you think about rephrasing it to something like this? I took a part of the paragraph from the internal version of the rule and tried to fix grammar mistakes.
```suggestion
In the `noncompliant01.py` code example, the `front_end` method simulates our front-end service that wants to connect to a back-end service together with its deployment in the same file. A real world example would have each run and delivered separately. The `TestSimulateDeployingFrontEnd` unit test simulates a deployment of the `front_end`. The implementation of the `front_end` did not consider deployment in separation to delivering the functionality it provides and has therefore hardcoded the connection information and machine to machine username and password credentials..
```

Author: It is quite a puzzle, how about:

```suggestion
The `noncompliant01.py` code example is simulating a `front-end`, `back-end`, and its deployment in one file. A real world example would have each run and delivered separately. The `TestSimulateDeployingFrontEnd` unit-test simulates a deployment of the `front_end`. The implementation of the `front_end` did not consider leaving connection details to the deployment and hardcoded them instead.
```

Reviewer: Looks good to me, you can go ahead and merge your suggestion.

Author: applied the last text as discussed in latest PR, resolved

|__Anti-pattern__|__Recommended pattern__|
|Passwords for machine to machine identity verification|time limited keys or access tokens that are unique per deployment or instances and get assigned at deployment time.|
|Shared usernames|RBAC, ABAC or policy engines|
|Hardcoded `UIDs`, `GIDs`|identity names|
|Hardcoded `IPs` or ports|Rather than hardcoding IP addresses DNS should be properly implemented in the deployment in combination with solutions such as:<br>- `RFC 9250` - [DNS over Dedicated QUIC Connections (ietf.org)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc9250/)<br>- `RFC 7858` - [Specification for DNS over Transport Layer Security (TLS) (ietf.org)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7858)<br>- `RFC 6494` - [Certificate Profile and Certificate Management for SEcure Neighbor Discovery (SEND) (ietf.org) for IPV6](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc6494/)<br>- `DNSSEC` [RFC 9364](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9364), `RFC 6014`, `5155`, `4641`....<br><br>The order and ways to resolve IPs is configured via `/etc/nsswitch.conf` on most Unix systems.<br><br>Using `mTLS` with a high granularity of machine identities can reduce or remove `DNS` related risks.|

> The `compliant01.py` code is using a `config.ini` file that is created by the deployment represented by `TestSimulateDeployingFrontEnd` and provided to the deployed front_end method representing the component we deploy. Using configuration files such as `ini`, `yaml` or `json` allows a language independent solution (`bash` vs `python`). The deployment, represented by `TestSimulateDeployingFrontEnd`, steering these files also secures them by making them read only to a single user via `self.config_file_path.chmod(0o400)`.

Author: Another puzzle :D. 

```suggestion
The `compliant01.py` code is using a `config.ini` file to decouple connection information. The deployment represented by `TestSimulateDeployingFrontEnd` is now in full control of proving connectivity information to the `front-end` and `back-end`. Using configuration files, such as `ini`, `yaml` or `json`, allows a language independent solution (`bash` vs `python`). The deployment, represented by `TestSimulateDeployingFrontEnd`, steering these files also secures them by making them read only to a single user via `self.config_file_path.chmod(0o400)`. The password based identity verfication is replaced with a certificate based solution.
```

> The `compliant01.py` code is using a `config.ini` file that is created by the deployment represented by `TestSimulateDeployingFrontEnd` and provided to the deployed front_end method representing the component we deploy. Using configuration files such as `ini`, `yaml` or `json` allows a language independent solution (`bash` vs `python`). The deployment, represented by `TestSimulateDeployingFrontEnd`, steering these files also secures them by making them read only to a single user via `self.config_file_path.chmod(0o400)`.

Reviewer: That works, too :)

User accounts are either for human or machine type of users. Machine users, such as a front end connecting to a backend `SQL`, have it easy to use complexity during identity verification. Hardcoded credentials for machine users are typically caused by a missing strategy or architecture infrastructure to establish trust between components at deployment time. Human users need a level of usability for their identity verification such as a combination of what they have and what they can remember. A human user Identity Management (IDM) system needs to support initial access and users forgetting passphrases or passwords without jeopardizing security.

Examples of hard-coded sensitive information:

* Default usernames with default password
* Database credentials
* API keys, tokens, SSH keys
* Service account credentials or keys used for installation or management.
* Default passwords for administrators after installation.
* Backend IP Addressess

Storing sensitive data as part of a components source code or deliverable package can result in legal consequences governed by:

> * Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) [US Congress 1996](https://aspe.hhs.gov/reports/health-insurance-portability-accountability-act-1996),

Reviewer 2: This link gives me a 403 Forbidden error?

Author: works for me on two different browsers, must have been temporary.

# SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
""" Non-compliant Code Example """
import logging
import unittest
 
logging.basicConfig(encoding="utf-8", level=logging.DEBUG)
 
 
def front_end():
    """Dummy method demonstrating noncompliant implementation"""
    # A noncompliant implementation would typically hardcode server_config
    # and load it from a project global python file or variable
    server_config = {}
    server_config["IP"] = "192.168.0.1"
    server_config["PORT"] = "192.168.0.1"
    server_config["USER"] = "admin"
    server_config["PASS"] = "SuperSecret123"
 
    # it would then use the configuration
    logging.debug("connecting to server IP %s", server_config["IP"])
    logging.debug("connecting to server PORT %s", server_config["IP"])
    logging.debug("connecting to server USER %s", server_config["USER"])
    logging.debug("connecting to server PASS %s", server_config["PASS"])
 
 
class TestSimulateDeployingFrontEnd(unittest.TestCase):
    """
    Simulate the deployment starting the front_end to connect
    to the backend
    """
 
    def test_front_end(self):
        """Verifiy front_end implementation"""
        front_end()
 
 

>  

Reviewer 2: Too many blank lines here.  Remove this one.

>  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

The `compliant01.py` code is using a `config.ini` file that is created by the deployment represented by `TestSimulateDeployingFrontEnd` and provided to the deployed front_end method representing the component we deploy. Using configuration files such as `ini`, `yaml` or `json` allows a language independent solution (`bash` vs `python`). The deployment, represented by `TestSimulateDeployingFrontEnd`, steering these files also secures them by making them read only to a single user via `self.config_file_path.chmod(0o400)`.

*[compliant01.py](compliant01.py):*

```python
""" Compliant Code Example """
# SPDX-FileCopyrightText: OpenSSF project contributors
# SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

> """ Compliant Code Example """

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

import logging
from pathlib import Path
import unittest
import configparser
 
logging.basicConfig(encoding="utf-8", level=logging.DEBUG)
 
 
def front_end(config_file_path: Path):

>     """Dummy method demonstrating noncompliant implementation"""

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    """Dummy method demonstrating compliant implementation"""
```
